# Safely-remove-log-journal-on-ubuntu
Safely remove log journal on ubuntu


In Ubuntu, the /var/log/journal directory contains binary journal files that are managed by the systemd-journald service.

The systemd-journald service is responsible for collecting and storing log data generated by the system and its services. It stores the logs in a binary format to optimize search and retrieval performance.

The /var/log/journal directory contains the binary journal files created by systemd-journald. These files can be accessed using the journalctl command-line tool, which allows you to view, search, and filter the system logs.

You can use the following command to display the logs from the binary journal files:

```
journalctl
```
By default, this command will display the logs from the current boot session. You can use various options and filters to display logs from different time ranges or for specific services.





you can delete the contents of the /var/log/journal directory in Ubuntu, but you should be careful when doing so as it will permanently remove the journal logs from your system.

If you want to free up disk space, you can use the journalctl command to clear the journal logs that are no longer needed. For example, the following command will clear all archived journal logs:

```
sudo journalctl --vacuum-time=1d
```
This command will remove all journal logs that are older than 1 day. You can adjust the time parameter to delete logs that are older than a different period of time.

